TELCODOCS-285: Added sections about Cluster Group Upgrades Operator (#40392)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-precache-feature.adoc

> // Module included in the following assemblies:

Reviewer: @vitus133, could you kindly confirm you have reviewed all this? Is there anything that has to be added?

// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="talo-precache-feature_{context}"]
= Using the image pre-cache feature

> The SNO spoke clusters might have limited bandwidth to the container image registry, which can cause a time-out before the updates are completed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SNO spoke clusters might have limited bandwidth to the container image registry, which can cause a timeout before the updates are completed. 
```

The pre-cache feature allows the required container images to be present on the spoke cluster before the update maintenance time.

[NOTE]
====

> The maintenance window is not set by the Topology-Aware Lifecycle Operator. You can apply the Topology-Aware Lifecycle Operator CR at the beginning of the maintenance window by manual application or by external automation. The update procedure start as soon as the Operator CR is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The maintenance window is not set by the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator. You can apply the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator CR at the beginning of the maintenance window by manual application or by external automation. The update procedure start as soon as the Operator CR is created.
```

Also, we're not setting a maintenance window right now, so it has to be rephrased. The upgrade starts once the enable flag is set to true.

====

.Prerequisites

> * Install the Topology-Aware Lifecycle Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator.
```

* Provision one or more managed SNO clusters using ZTP.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR with the `preCaching` field set to `true`, and then save the YAML in the `cgu-cr.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: du-upgrade-4915
  namespace: ztp-install
spec:
  preCaching: true <1>
  clusterSelector: <2>
  - "sites=example-lab" 
  deleteObjectsOnCompletion: false

>   Clusters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  clusters:
```

  - cnfdb1
  - cnfdb2
  - snonode1
  - snonode2
  enable: true
  managedPolicies:
  - ztp-platform-upgrade <3>
  remediationStrategy:
    canaries:
    - cnfdb1
    maxConcurrency: 2
    timeout: 240
----

> <1> The `preCaching` field is set to `true`, which enables the Operator to pull the container images before the maintenance window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `preCaching` field is set to `true`, which enables the Operator to pull the container images before starting the upgrade.
```

<2> The `clusterSelector` lists the labels applied to the clusters that you want to update.
<3> The `platform-upgrade` policy changes from `inform` to `enforce`.

> . At the beginning of your maintenance window, create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. When you want to start the upgrade, create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR by running the following command:
```

----
<1> The CR is created.

. Check the status of the update by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ watch "oc get cgu du-upgrade-4915 -n ztp-platform-upgrade -ojsonpath='{.status}' | jq"
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
{
    "conditions": [
        {
            "lastTranstionTime": "2022-02-03T12:31:37Z",
            "message": "Precaching is not completed (required)",
            "reason": "PrecachingRequired",
            "status": "False",
            "type": "Ready",
        },
        {
            "lastTranstionTime": "2022-02-03T12:31:37Z",
            "message": "Precaching is required and not done",
            "reason": "PrecachingNotDone",
            "status": "False",
            "type": "PrecachingDone",
        }
    ],
    "precaching": {
        "clusters:" [
            "cnfdb1",
            "cnfdb2",
            "snonode1",
            "snonode2"
        ],
        "spec": {},
        "status": { <1>
            "cnfdb1": "Starting",
            "cnfdb2": "Starting",
            "snonode1": "Starting",
            "snonode2": "Starting"
        }
    },
    "status": {}
}
----

> <1> The list of identified clusters is displayed. The update on the clusters are in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The list of identified clusters is displayed. The update is in progress.
```

+
In this state, TALO deletes any pre-caching namespace and Hub view resources of spoke clusters that remain from previous incomplete updates. TALO then creates a new `ManagedClusterView` resource for the spoke pre-caching namespace to verify its deletion in the `PrecachePreparing` state.
`PrecachePreparing`:: In this state, cleaning up any remaining resources from previous incomplete updates is in progress.
`PrecacheStarting`:: In this state, pre-caching job pre-requisites and the job are created.
`PrecacheActive`:: The job is in "Active" state.
`PrecacheSucceeded`:: In this state, the pre-cache job has succeeded.
`PrecacheTimeout`:: In this state, the artifact pre-caching has been partially done.
`PrecacheUnrecoverableError`:: In this sate, the job ends with a non-zero exit code.

[id="talo-precache-start_and_update_{context}"]
== Creating a ClusterGroupUpgrade CR with pre-caching

.Prerequisites

* Install the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator.
* Provision one or more managed clusters using ZTP.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

> . Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR with the `preCaching` field set to `true`, and then save the YAML in the `clustergroupupgrades-group-du.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR with the `preCaching` field set to `true` in the `clustergroupupgrades-group-du.yaml` file:
```

> // Module included in the following assemblies:

Reviewer 2: qe doc verification for image-precaching is on-hold until blocker bzs resolved and testing is completed.

// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="talo-precache-feature_{context}"]
= Using the container image pre-cache feature

The clusters might have limited bandwidth to access the container image registry, which can cause a timeout before the updates are completed. 
The pre-cache feature allows the required container images to be present on the spoke cluster before the update starts.

[NOTE]
====
The time of the update is not set by TALO. You can apply the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR at the beginning of the update by manual application or by external automation.
====

The container image pre-caching starts when the `preCaching` field is set to `true` in the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR. After a successful pre-caching process, you can start remediating policies. The remediation actions start when the `enable` field is set to `true`.

[id="talo-precache-autocreated-cgu-for-ztp_{context}"]

> == About the auto-created ClusterGroupUpgrade CR for ZTP

Reviewer 2: This file is talking about image precaching, which doesn't look like the right place for ztp-install CGU (doesn't use image precaching). 
If we have a consolidated end-to-end upgrade guide, then it is more suitable to go there, as the policies from ZTP would be reused in upgrade.

<2> Displays the list of identified clusters.

. Check the status of the pre-caching job by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get jobs,pods -n openshift-talo-pre-cache
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                  COMPLETIONS   DURATION   AGE
job.batch/pre-cache   0/1           3m10s      3m10s

NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/pre-cache--1-9bmlr   1/1     Running   0          3m10s
----

 . Check the status of the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get cgu -n ztp-group-du-sno du-upgrade-4918 -o jsonpath='{.status}' | jq
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,json]
----
conditions": [
    {
      "lastTransitionTime": "2022-01-27T19:30:41Z",
      "message": "The ClusterGroupUpgrade CR has all clusters compliant with all the managed policies",
      "reason": "UpgradeCompleted",
      "status": "True",
      "type": "Ready"
    },
    {
      "lastTransitionTime": "2022-01-27T19:28:57Z",
      "message": "Precaching is completed",
      "reason": "PrecachingCompleted",
      "status": "True",
      "type": "PrecachingDone" <1>
    }
----

> <1> The pre-cache tasks are done.

Reviewer 2: We need to tell user how to start upgrade from this point on. Basically, user needs to know that they have to delete and reapply the same CGU to start upgrade after pre-caching is completed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="talo-precache-feature_{context}"]
= Using the container image pre-cache feature

The SNO spoke clusters might have limited bandwidth to the container image registry, which can cause a timeout before the updates are completed. 
The pre-cache feature allows the required container images to be present on the spoke cluster before the update maintenance time.

[NOTE]
====

> The maintenance window is not set by the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator. You can apply the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator CR at the beginning of the maintenance window by manual application or by external automation. The update procedure start when the `enable` field is set to `true`.

Reviewer 3: For clarity does the "update procedure" include pre-caching or is pre-caching done before the CGU is enabled?

Author: @irinamihai Could you please check? My understanding here was that the pre-caching is done at this point. Once you set `enabled` to `true`, that's when updating the clusters starts.

Reviewer: @vitus133 should have the last say here.
In my opinion, this should be rephrased to better explain precaching. The above paragraph is accurate, but it doesn't explain how pre-caching works.

Pre-caching is independent of the `enable` flag, as it has its own boolean flag, `preCaching`. If the `preCaching` field is set to true, then in the upgrade procedure we're firstly doing the precaching and once that is completed successfully, we are moving to the part where we're starting the policy remediation actions. These actions start when the `enable flag is set to `true`.

Reviewer 4: @irinamihai is absolutely right here ^^

Author: Added a paragraph for clarification to the Using the pre-cache feature section:
> The container image pre-caching starts when the `preCaching` field is set to `true` in the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR. After a successful pre-caching process, you can start remediating policies. The remediation actions start when the `enable` field is set to `true`.

====

[id="talo-precache-create_policy_{context}"]
== Creating a policy to pre-cache container images

.Prerequisites

* Install the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator.
* Provision one or more managed SNO clusters using ZTP.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Extract the container image in digest format for the `PolicyGenTemplate` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release info 4.9.18 | head
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Name:      4.9.18
Digest:    sha256:1234abcd5678efgh
Created:   2022-01-26T14:50:25Z
OS/Arch:   linux/amd64
Manifests: 522

Pull From: example.io/openshift-release/ocp-release@sha256:1234abcd5678efgh
----

. Create the `PolicyGenTemplate` CR in `inform` mode, then save the YAML in the `du-upgrade.yaml` file.
+
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1

Reviewer 3: Same as above, I think we should use the actual Policy object here for reference and link to a "using PolicyGenTemplate to create policies" section.

cnfdb2                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-platform-upgrade        inform               NonCompliant       3d18h
ztp-group-du-sno      du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                         inform               NonCompliant       3d18h
----

. Check if the cluster contains the desired cluster version by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get policy ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-platform-upgrade -n cnfdb1 -o jsonpath='{.spec}' | jq
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
"spec": {
                  "channel": "candidate-4.9",
                  "desiredUpdate": {
                    "force": false,
                    "image": "example.io/openshift-release/ocp-release@sha256:1234abcd5678efgh",
                    "version": "4.9.18" <1>
                  }
----
<1> The `version` field shows the desired cluster version.

[id="talo-precache-start_and_update_{context}"]
== Starting the pre-caching task

.Prerequisites

* Install the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator.
* Provision one or more managed SNO clusters using ZTP.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

> * Create a policy with pre-caching enabled

Reviewer 5: missing a period

> * Create a policy with pre-caching enabled

Reviewer 3: It is the ClusterGroupUpgrade that is being created here.

.Procedure

. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR with the `preCaching` field set to `true`, and then save the YAML in the `clustergroupupgrades-group-du.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: du-upgrade-4918
  namespace: ztp-group-du-sno
spec:
  preCaching: true <1>

>   deleteObjectsOnCompletion: true

Reviewer 6: I think deleteObjectsOnCompletion is deprecated (see https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2040874). Now it should be as below (under spec):

```
spec:
  actions:
    afterCompletion:
      deleteObjects: true
```

Author: Updated all instances
